So this part is optional.
If you don't wanna sign up for
a Mailgun account, you don't have to.
It's just a way to actually see real
things happening with a serverless API.
So the way that we're gonna
make Mailgun work is,
first, I'm going to add
a couple dependencies.
So I'm gonna yarn add.
Dotenv, which is for
environment variables,
because we're going to need API keys.
And I'm also going to add Mailgun js,
which is an SDK for
doing MailGunny things without having
to write a bunch of custom code.
And while we're waiting for
that to install, we can just go
ahead and head over to the Mailgun app,
Mailgun dot com.
And I'm going to login because
I already have an account.
If you want to set up an account,
you can do that.
But we're gonna need two
pieces of data off this.
I set up a dot env dot example so
that you can see which pieces we need.
And it's also got links to where to
find it, which sections we're going to.
I've already set these up so that I don't
have to show API keys on the stream.
If you wanna find yours, you're sending
domains will be here by default.
When you sign up,
you get this sandbox domain.
And your API keys are down at the bottom.
And you can just click
through to an API key, and
you'll be able to grab this
private API key, right?
So that's what you'll need.
You'll paste that API key up here.
You'll paste the domain over here.
And that'll give you the values that you
need to actually operate the Mailgun API.
So inside of our contact form, or
our contact handler, what we need to do is
get access to those environment variables.
So the first thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna require dotenv.
And I'm gonna use the config method on it.
That actually causes it to
load these dotenv file.
This one here is what'll
get loaded by default.
You can change the path to that if
you want it to be something else.
But dotenv is kind of
the industry standard,
that's why the package is called dotenv.
Inside of this,
I am going to just replace all of this.
Well, I guess,
we'll actually use some of that.
I'm gonna grab the Mailgun SDK
by requiring Mailgun-js.
And then, I'm going to initialize
Mailgun by calling it with our API key,
which is going to be at process
dotenv dot malign API key.
And then, I also need the domain,
which is at maligun domain.
And I've spelled something wrong.
Okay, that looks a little better.
So we now have this mg
which is an authenticated instance of
Mailgun that we can send things from.
So what I wanna do next, is I wanna
take that event that we were logging,
and that showed up up here somewhere
What comes out of this is we get the body
that we sent in the post request.
And so, I'm just gonna grab that out so
we can use it.
So our email, or data, sorry,
is going to be json dot parse
to turn the stringify JSON into
real usable JavaScript object.
We're gonna use the event dot body,
and that's gonna give us the state.
So whatever we pass in our form,
we're sending this state.
We're gonna get that out in data.
So then, we wanna set up our email.
So this is what we're actually gonna send.
And the requirement is a from address,
so we'll say it's gonna come from me.
You can add your own
address if you'd like.
This is a kind of an email format, you do
a name and then inside of brackets you
do the email so that the email
client knows who it came from.
And then, we're gonna set up the to,
and that's going to be data.name.
And then, inside of the angle brackets,
we'll do data dot email, okay?
Subject is going to be data dot subject.
And the text will be data dot body.
So once we have the email ready,
we can just send it.
So we'll do mg, and
then this has a messages, kind of suite
of things, so we'll initialize that.
And then, I'm gonna send our email.
And what comes out the other
side is an error and a message.
And if nothing goes wrong, error is null.
And if all goes well,
the response that we get back,
sorry, this is a response, not a message.
So the response that we get back
will be useful information
about what just happened.
So what we can do is actually just send
back this error because it'll be null.
And otherwise, if things go well,
we'll send back statusCode 200, and
then we can send the body will
be JSON.stringify, the response.
And then, I can delete this down here.
And that's really how it works, right?
That's really all we need.
So from here, we can test this.
Let's see, we've got it running.
And so, if I just shoot off an empty
message, we should get an error
because Mailgun's gonna expect that
there's a valid email address.
So let's see if that works.
Okay, something went wrong.
Our error message isn't super helpful,
which is a little frustrating.
So Let's send one that is valid so
that we don't derail
with me trying to debug why that error
message isn't working the way I want.
So we're gonna send this in, and
we'll say that this is a test.
Hello from Frontend Masters.
And I'm gonna send it.
Okay, it was sent.
And now, the true moment of truth.
I'm gonna open my email on a stream.
Hopefully everything is not gonna go.
See, get anything weird?
No, okay, hey, there we go.
Hello from Frontend Masters.
So we got the email.
It actually sent, it did what we want.
And I'm gonna immediately close that.
[LAUGH] So let's save our work.
And that's In a nutshell,
we have just written a legitimately
full-featured application.
We've got a form that is
responding to user input.
It's responding to server state.
But we didn't have to stand
up a server for that.
We wrote one function, and that function
realistically is not doing a whole lot.
This is a startlingly low
amount of code to write for
the handling server side logic.
And if you've ever had to stand
up a node server to be an API,
or if you've stood up a Ruby or
a PHP server to handle API requests,
this is really powerful stuff.
This is really, really nice.